---
{"type":"info","world":"Tor","campaign":"Valor of Rain","description":null,"icon":"fasScroll","tags":["info/world","Aos"],"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/valor-of-rain/ba-rr-y/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"created":"2025-08-06T19:12:20.815+09:30","updated":"2025-08-07T14:04:11.030+09:30"}
---

An extant entity, feared by those in the [[Valor-of-Rain/Aos\|Aos]] who know of it (and thus know its nature) and worshiped by 


"There exists a *virus of the mind* within our peoples.  We thought that our method of transference and preservation of information was our greatest blessing.  It was the foundation on which we rebuilt our culture, how we knew and understood it.  It was a curse.  Perhaps there was something in the things that became þe Orchard – like a hidden fungal infection spreading in the dark –  and we were simply the catalyst; or were we the mode of transmission, a bad idea that has tainted what was once pure?; It may not even be an external force.  It matters not the how nor the why, now it simply is; I have identified the corruption.  At first I though to extricate it, to cut the rot.  (if you have noticed an unusual amount of collective long-term memory loss, this is why)  I now know this is not possible, the virus is bound to our ideas, without which neither can survive.  Then I thought to cull; to amputate the infection.  This too was futile.  Only in isolation could I remove a meme, only for it to return on contact to the greater memeplex.  To think one might destroy an idea that permeated all of our memeplex?  Such an act is unfeasible.  Of course, this was before I made my greatest and most terrible discovery, the extent of its reach is unlimited; there is not a meme that is free of the virus.  There exists a *virus of the mind* within our peoples, it has no cure.  There is no way to stop its spread.  We should never have found those trees.  We should never have allowed ourself to link with them.  We should [[Valor-of-Rain/Burning of the Branch\|Burn them all]].  It is the only recourse.  Our people are doomed, but perhaps we can prevent it from happening to others. <br> ~ Ollamh Olc, [[_ARCHIVED/Alstriza/ALSTRIZA_ Factions#Sainfoin (Lesser Gardeners)\|Sainfoin]] don Úllord (Dr. Olc, Gardener for the Orchard)
{ #dd38e4}


