---
{"dg-publish":true,"date":"2024-09-04","type":"info","world":"Tor","campaign":"Valor of Rain","description":null,"icon":"FasNoteSticky","tags":["info/world","info/plot"],"permalink":"/valor-of-rain/campaign-doc/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"created":"2024-09-04T13:17:56.794+09:30","updated":"2024-09-06T14:15:12.826+09:30"}
---

Far in the south of [[Alastria\|Alastria]], resides the most unyielding nation of people that pride themselves on their independence. Through thick and thin, Valonia remained a sovereign kingdom even when the rebel prince [[Leon Briskwalker\|Leon Briskwalker]] marched on their lands. They’ve beaten back the [[Black Raiders\|Black Raiders]] of [[Krakenhelm\|Krakenhelm]] for hundreds of years, and are revered as “unconquerable”. [[Marcello le Complasiant\|Marcello le Complasiant]][^3], the recently ruling Lord[^2] of [[Valor-of-Rain/Valonier\|Valonier]] has passed quietly in his sleep, and his succession has been passed to [[Gabriel le Vexant\|Gabriel le Vexant]][^4]. His \[coronation] was witnessed and celebrated, however it was not long after until the entire nation was in uproar. Gabriel arranged a meeting with [[Harold Briskwalker\|Harold Briskwalker]] to request the Solar Treaty to join the Great Alliance, the [[Sunset-Fortune/Compendium/SolarSwords\|Solarswords]]. Unbeknownst to the family, \[a group of civilian insurgents] were conspiring a Coup d'état to kill Gabriel[^1] before he had power. Thanks to the \[intervention] of a [[Sunset-Fortune/Compendium/Raoul\|brave knight]][^5], the royal guard protected Gabriel and the family, and great riots erupted in the city centre. Many of the \[insurgents] were able to escape during the chaos, those left were executed, and peace[^6] was restored. This campaign takes place directly after these events, with knights and sages from across the realm arriving to Valonier to protect and advise the lords and lady’s of Valonia, their union to the Solarswords being long awaited. As the rain grows heavy, so do the people’s mistrust of the royal family. The people are divided and wait to hear the crown’s response to the riots. With the sudden surge of travellers new businesses are born, and new players join the game. Valor and Rain is a urban-political drama themed campaign that is slow paced and will be RP heavy. Will you be an urchin from the dirty streets, or hardworking fisherman? A stubborn sage, or a young prodigy? A lawful knight, or a noble wandering Raven’s Keep? The choice is yours to make.

[^1]: They were planning to abolish the _Ancien régime_ (lit. old rule), the feudal system of kings and aristocrats that governs Valonier.  Certain elements may have wanted the king dead for various reasons.
[^2]: The last *roi de Valér* (lit. king of Valonier)
[^3]: Marcello "le complaisant" (lit. the complaisant), maison de Cobalt (house of Cobalt)
[^4]: Gabriel "le vexant" (lit. the vexing)
[^5]: He was knighted for his efforts.
[^6]: How is peace defined?