---
{"date":"2024-08-17","campaign":"Valor of Rain","world":"Tor","type":"character","location":"Capitol","player":"(Michael)","race":"Gnome","gender":"Male","class":"Chronicler","occupation":"Order of the Apostle#Steward","faction":"Order of the Apostle","met":null,"rel":"Company","status":"Alive","active":"Active","tags":["character","VoR","#Mwarf","chronicles"],"icon":"FasCircleUser","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/valor-of-rain/chronicler/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"created":"2024-08-20T14:53:23.028+09:30","updated":"2024-10-15T00:52:50.107+10:30"}
---

> *The off-white-robed figure approaches, walking with an uneven, yet purposeful gait.  He reaches out to you, looking to all the world like another of [[Valor-of-Rain/Capitol\|Capitol]]'s crippled beggars.
> "HARKON TRAVELER!  I am the custodian of the [chronicles of Mwarf](Mwarf's%20Tome.md), first herald of the one true God, [BARrY](BARrY); I am keeper of the [[Shard of the key to his tomb\|Shard of the key to his tomb]];  and last Steward of The [[Valor-of-Rain/Order of the Apostle\|Order of the Apostle]]."* 

Seeming (Description:: a crippled beggar with delusions of grander), the chronicler bears only the artefacts of his order, and rags with which to show his humility.  He owns nothing and covets nothing; seeking only to retain knowledge so others may know.
# Relationships
## Paris Harlocke
The Chronicler's relationship with the young heir may be seen as peculiar in that it is.  The Chronicler had a habit of entering libraries and the like without express permission, seeking knowledge.  Such visits were usually swiftly ended by security responding to complaints of foul odours and unsightly figures.  During one such visit, while Paris was searching for information regarding \[Something] — information that the library could not provide — The Chronicler approached him, claiming expertise in the subject.  This conversation was interrupted by security whom apologised to Paris for the intrusion and (removed the Chronicler from the premises or Paris handed the Chronicler his library card so they could continue their conversation.)

This was the first of many such conversations, generally taking place as the Chronicler lead Paris through Valonier on his round though piles of rubbish looking for things to sell, eat, or secret in his nest.  Beggars were a fixture of the city, and the Chronicler was no different.  When Paris had the time, he would simply walk through the Eastern gate and down an alley, ask a question, and Blánc would be by side, ready with the answer — or what he took to be an answer, it wasn't always clear what Blánc meant, or if he had understood the question, but he was always adamant he was correct.  Occasionally he would stop suddenly, remove an musty old tome from his cloak — done with such a reverence you would think it the written words of a god — before opening to seeming a random page and procuring the answer.  Paris had never seen the inside of the book, the few times he has tried, Blánc had hidden it beneath his cloak with such swiftness one would not think possible of the old man.  Rarely, when the answer was not within the book, P 
# Equipment
[[Valor-of-Rain/Mwarf's Tome\|Mwarf's Tome]]

The Chronicler dons a cloak of white rabbit pelts, those of the heathen order Mwarf once belonged to.  ([[_Game Resources/_SRD/Spells/Speak with Dead\|Speak with Dead]] allows communion with the creatures sacrificed to make the cloak)

The [[Shard of the Key to the Tomb\|Shard of the Key to the Tomb]] of [BARrY](BARrY) is but a fragment of an [[ancient amulet\|ancient amulet]] once carried by Mwarf.  It was said to be able to unlock the [Box](BARrY%20Box) that held BARrY captive.  The location of the other fragments are lift to time.
# Chronicles 
The Chronicles speak of an ancient order of knights, The [[Valor-of-Rain/Cult of Alstriza\|Cult of Alstriza]], whom with one of Mwarf’s First Company belonged to.  The COA are fierce foes and great allies.  The  [[Chroniclers\|Chroniclers]] still holds vestiges of this ancient alliance.