---
date: 2024-08-25
campaign: Sunset Fortune
world: Tor
game_date: 
type:
  t: item
  s: 
location: 
description: 
tags:
  - item
  - sf
icon: FasCube
---
[attunement:: True]
[qty:: 1]
[value::]

[1](obsidian://open?vault=DnD&file=_ARCHIVED%2FDnD%20import%2F_A%20Bed%20of%20Leaves_.docx)

---
[20210725T2309 Discord DM to Vlarian from Mwarf](https://discord.com/channels/@me/691509919119179856/868849860214943814)

**Bed of leaves** 
"The bed can be found made and in perfect condition. 
**CURSE**: If attuned to the bed and the attunee(?) moves 20-feet away from the bed, its components will fly towards them and stick to them, said foliage can be destroyed but will be replaced by the most desirable foliage in the surrounding area upon the bed being triggered again. The bed is triggered when the creature feels dreary or is in need of a rest."

---
[20210725T2322 Discord DM to Vlarian from Mwarf](https://discord.com/channels/@me/691509919119179856/868853105951907881)

Example of bed doing stuff 
Adventer finds a bed of leaves
Adventurer sits bed of leaves
is instantly attuned to the bed (and cannot unattune by normal means but does not require a spell slot)
Adventurer sits up and moves 20ft away.
Leaves come flying at adventurer 
Adventurer is spooked
Friends laugh at adventured covered in leaves
Adventurer tries to remove a handful of leaves, the leaves are stopped mid-air and fly back to the adventurer.
Adventurer lives in mild discomfort until they are tired.
leaves fly down and for a bed (one is trapped between pack and back but gets free eventually)
Adventurer sleeps.

Adventurer wakes up after useing bed for a week, walks away, bed flies.
Adventure: *fake yawn* "i'm feeling a bit sleepy, might just go back to bed"
bed forms
Adventure fire balls bed "HA HA!!! I GOT YOU!"
Bed is no more
Adventure walks 20ft away from bed
Ash flies into their face
Party laughs
Adventurer: "drats, really thought that would work, this stupid, no good leaf thing!"
Bed is sad, bed falls
Adventurer: "huh"

Adventurer is tired, lies down on floor, *huh, what happened to... oh...*
Adventurer: "i miss my leaf bed"
Leaf bed is formed, but this time has no sticks
Adventurer is happy

Adventurer is adventuring with party in mountain
Adventurer finds a nice patch of moss: "wow! this moss is *soooooo* soft!"
leaf bed falls down and is replaced by cool moss blanket/cloak/cowl/kilt (DM discretion, player suggestions, i.e wow, i like this, but i think i would like this better... moss is sentinet so can change shape).

Some time passes, moss is destroyed, adventurer goes on quest for more moss.
Adventurer comes back with some moss to grow and enchants the moss bed with fire-proof-ness (FIRE PROOF CLOAK!!!).

Mwarf finally retires.